part A - Icebreaker ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Your demonstrator will lead you through the following icebreaker activity:
You are stranded on a small island out at sea suggest three things you should bring which will most help you
survive.
Your demonstrator will start you off listing items by yourself and then inform you when to discuss with someone
next to you (and pick the top three most important from your combined list). From there the pair of you will
join a group of four again selecting the three most important from the three chosen by each pair. After this
your demonstrator will ask each team to pick a representative to list their top three to the class and why they
were chosen.

OUR CHOICES:
	1. Water purifier
	2. Swiss Army Knife
	3. Rescue Signal



Part B - Pair programming example ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Your demonstrator will go through each of the following situations and ask you to first discuss your thoughts
with the person next to you and then contribute to a class discussion.
For each of the following situations, think about how the individual in the story can help to ensure the pair is
working together effectively.
Situation 1:
You are quite confident you know what to do with the task and you want to give your partner the opportunity
to contribute as well but every time you try to get them to write something they tell you that you seem much
better at programming than them so they’re happy to let you do it and just watch; they don’t want to get in
the way and mess something up.
OUR SOLUTION:
Point them toward resources, answer their questions but don’t tell them what to do

Situation 2:
You want to be involved in writing code for this task but every time you write something, your partner tells
you it’s wrong and replaces it with their own code. Eventually they just ask you to sit and watch so you don’t
mess up their work.
OUR SOLUTION:
First, try to tell them diplomatically that you need to learn, and they are stopping you. But if that doesn’t work, then you need to talk to a faculty member.

Situation 3:
You and your partner have read the description of the task but neither of you knows how to start.
It is our intention that after completion of this task you feel empowered to be more effective at working with
other students in a programming context.
OUR SOLUTION:
Research and brainstorm, seek help from others.
